---
id: 01KMTBD8RC71J7S7A4J4BGD6ZE
date: 20260328-135117
---

"

I just uploaded to the Internet Archive the PDF version of E-culture, a
study I co-authored with Bronac Ferran a long time ago. It is one of
many examples of grounded research made invisible due to
circumstances.  
When we finished it in 2009, the study was published by the organisation
that commissioned it, Virtueel Platform. Changes in the cultural funding
scenario (and the political climate) in the Netherlands first made the
whole project disappear from their website. Later, Virtueel Platform was
merged into the Nieuwe Instituut, and it seems that other archives have
been discontinued as well.  
A version of the study was also available for some years in the Issuu
profile of Anilla Cultural, a cooperation program that used to exist
between Europe and Latin America (and if you ask me, would be very
relevant with the upcoming EU-Mercosur agreement). But that one
disappeared as well.  
It is sadly a very common situation, especially in the case of
non-academic research. One more reason for organised communities (and
those not so organised as well) to take ownership of their (our)
archiving infrastructure. The Internet Archive is fantastic, but the
truth is that in this world we're living in 2026, there is no guarantee
that it will last forever.  
I'm trying to do my part, but it's a never-ending work. And largely
non-funded.  
Here is the study, if anyone's interested:  
[https://is.efeefe.me/stuff/e-culture]()

"
