---
id: 01KQQ2ZFR3PVGJ4117QF3ZY2N1
date: 20260503-141319
---

"

Barcelona in [my thesis]() (2/2):

*p.175*

> My exploration of the streets of Berlin was an attempt to make sense
> of urban phenomena that are not exclusive to that particular context,
> and yet reverberate life in other cities under contemporary capitalist
> societies. In many neighbourhoods of the German capital, it is common
> to find boxes with goods for donation outside residential buildings.
> **I had experienced that in the past in Barcelona, where residents put
> their donations out on a different weekday in each neighbourhood,
> usually the evening before the collection of large items happens. The
> difference in Berlin was seeing that happening on any day, at least in
> some neighbourhoods.**
>
> That setting of a perceived abundance was influential on my research
> and design processes. I experienced a permanent flow of goods
> available to be taken and reused. Many objects found in the streets
> were incorporated into my home, either used for their original purpose
> (a drawer cabinet, plants, shelves) or transformed (a small room
> divider repurposed as a tabletop and, curiously, a large tabletop used
> as a divider). In addition to the availability of things for the
> taking on the streets, my exploration of reuse cultures in Berlin was
> also observing and experiencing flea markets and second-hand shops in
> neighbourhoods, as well as online communities for exchanging or
> selling used goods. With eyes on that, for some time I described my
> research as one of creating abundant systems to reuse and redistribute
> unused goods and materials.
>
> During a seminar in the context of COP-26 (Dillon, 2022) organised by
> artist and professor Teresa Dillon, however, I was prompted to
> question the appropriateness of abundance as the best way to frame my
> investigation. During the Q&A after my presentation, co-panellist
> Julia Corwin from LSE pointed to a crucial distinction between two
> terms I used almost interchangeably in my session: abundance and
> generosity. The conversation then moved towards a perspective where
> abundance is seen as passively receiving, whilst generosity would be
> based on intentionality and arguably some effort. Recognising the
> validity of such distinction to my investigation of conviviality, I
> incorporated that change instantly.

"
