---
id: 01KJRGXJM4YGGD7W9TKE836FTA
date: 20260303-001742
---

"

It feels like I'm a few years too late in the fediweb discussion, but
that's life - been doing other stuff for a while. Some months ago,
though, as I was exploding my mind and collecting the pieces in the form
of [Coletora](), the urge to reclaim my own timeline got more present.
I've maintained blogs since the early 00s (changed blog engines many
times, which made [my personal archives]() inconsistent and full of
encoding errors, but they're there nonetheless. Many of the projects I
was involved with had blogs as a central documentation tool. The
practice of tending and curating timelines also expanded to my 2-decade
long (and still growing) [list of bookmarks](). I used tumblr, the good
old twitter of back in the day, and many similar platforms that did not
survive like the promising identi.ca (or was it... what?) and others.  
But as walled gardens with algorithmically manipulated timelines took
over online sociability, I too gave up on public timelines. Not
completely - admittedly, I own an account on the \*tagram thing to check
on friends and do a bit of light stalking and egotripping, and
occasionally check the LinkedThing to hustle for work.  
In any case, I've been taking notes in private (btw ever heard of
Obsidian? I'll write about it some other day) and my public
documentation has gone more to wiki-like sorts of things. But that
impulse to just post some text to nobody in particular and document a
moment of insight still emerges from time to time. And in the absence of
old-school twitter, my aesthetic repulsion of standard mastodon
instances and the lack of real alternatives, I decided to give a go with
this thing (pun intended). Let's see if it works, if I develop a habit,
and if I'm able to maintain yet another microbit of infra.

I wonder what happens if I add hashtags here. [\#gotosocial]()
[\#fediweb]()

"
